V8 Creating, Saving and Publishing Content (#2241)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: Tutorials/Editors-Manual/Getting-Started-With-Umbraco/Creating-Saving-and-Publishing-Content/index.md

1. Hover over the name of the parent page and then click on the options icon (•••) to reveal the types of pages you can create.
2. Click on the type of page you wish to create which will then load the new page into the content area on the right-hand side.
3. Enter a name for the page in the text field at the top of the content area. 

![This shows an arrow pointing at the home node in the section tree.](images/Step-one-parent-page.png)

![This shows an arrow pointing at Enter a name...](images/Enter-the-page-name-here.png)

## Various Saving and Publishing Options

There are four different options you have for saving and publishing pages. Each have their own benefits for different occasions depending on whether you’re still in the process of editing the page or have completed and wish to publish your changes.

### Save

> The ***Save*** option (Located next to the ***Save and publish*** button) is used for saving the page without publishing the changes to the live site. This is especially useful if you are working on changes over a period of time as you can save frequently to prevent losing any data or if you wish to save the current state and return to edit the page at a later date. Using the ***Preview*** button will show you how the page will look once published.

Reviewer: This sentence was a bit too long - I made some suggestions. What do you think?

```suggestion
The ***Save*** option (Located next to the ***Save and publish*** button) is used for saving the page without publishing the changes to the live site. This is especially useful if you are working on changes over a period of time as you can save frequently to prevent losing any data. Saving the content page will also enable you to use the ***Preview*** feature, which will show you how the page will look once published. The Preview feature is accessed next to the Save button.
```

![This shows an arrow pointing at The save button.](images/The-save-button.png)

### Save and Publish

The ***Save and publish*** button is ideal for when you want to publish a previously saved page to the live website, or to publish a page without previewing it. This will save and publish the page to your live website.

![This shows an arrow pointing at Save and publish.](images/Save-and-publish.png)

### Publish with descendants

Clicking the arrow next to the ***Save and publish*** button will present you with two options(three if you have published before).

> Here you can pick ***Publish with descendants***, This will allow you to publish the current page and all content that is linkrd to this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can pick ***Publish with descendants***, which will allow you to publish the current page and all content that is linked to this page.
```

> You will get the option to include drafts, this means that you also include all unpublished content items for thsi page and all linked pages.

Reviewer: Is this an option you get when using the "Publish with descendants" option? (just curious!)

```suggestion
You will get the option to include drafts. This means that you also include all unpublished content items for this page and all linked pages.
```

![This shows an arrow pointing at Publish with descendants.](images/Publish-with-descendants.png)

### Scheduled Publishing and Unpublishing

> Scheduled publishing is ideal when you need a page to go live at a specific date and time when it is not convenient to do so manually. To schedule publishing/unpublishing you need to navigate to the arrow next to the ***Save and publish*** button and select the ***Schedule*** button then a box will pop up, that ask for a date for the schedualed publishing or unpublishing. Select the date and then click the ***Clock*** at the bottom of the calendar to select the time you wish for the page to be published/unpublished. After you have done this, click anywhere outside of the date and time picker pop-up to close it. Now all you need to do is save your changes by clicking The ***Schedule*** button.

Reviewer: This section is very long. Wouldn't it make sense to split the bottom part into a list instead?
At least the steps on how to publish / unpublish.. What do you think? 🤔

```suggestion
Scheduled publishing is ideal when you need a page to go live at a specific date and time, and it is not convenient to do so manually. 

To schedule publishing or unpublishing a page you need to navigate to the arrow next to the ***Save and publish*** button and select the ***Schedule*** option. Then a box will pop up, that asks for a date for the scheduled publishing or unpublishing. Select the date and then click the ***Clock*** at the bottom of the calendar to select the time you wish for the page to be published/unpublished. After you have done this, click anywhere outside of the date and time picker pop-up to close it. Now all you need to do is save your changes by clicking The ***Schedule*** button.
```
